# Muon_Lifetime_Data_Analysis
Data analysis and visualization creation for muon data collected over 4 four weeks. A discriminator and oscilloscope were used to record the the counts of muon decay. Corrections were then applied to the data from the discriminator. The corrections to the data aided to make the estimation as accurate as possible. In the second part of the experiment the data collected from the oscilloscope was plotted and the background data measured was subtracted from the muon decay data. Muons are unstable particles similar to electrons however, they have a much greater mass, approximately 105 MeV. They are created in cosmic ray colli- sions. There are two types of muons, with opposite charge, and they decay into electrons or positrons and two neutrinos. The goal of this experiment is to measure the muon lifetime which is roughly 2 μs. In order to do so muons that happen to come to rest inside the detector will be examined. That is, first a muon will be captured and then measure the elapsed time until it decays. The apparatus that detects the muon consists of two types of detectors. Charged particles (muons and electrons) emit light when they pass through scintillation material. This light is detected with photo-multiplier tubes. The photo-multiplier is then connected to a discriminator. The discriminator is a device that converts a photo-multiplier pulse into a square wave of well defined shape. The threshold adjustment on the discriminator determines the minimum pulse size that is required to trigger it. The discriminator counts the number of events that were triggered by the specifications set on the oscilloscope. Two intervals were chosen. One for the muon lifetime and another larger time interval to collect the background counts that may affect the data. This was done to attempt to make the data more accurate.
First to start the experiment one must gain a good understanding of the oscil- loscope. Learning how to save data and trigger to collect the proper data. To start one must edit the trigger type and interval that will make the oscilloscope only sensitive to events that are within the interval. Since the goal is to measure the muon life time the oscilloscope is triggered to be sensitive to 100ns to 10 microsec. The apparatus was left to collect data for a week. Following this an estimation of the muon life time was constructed by applying corrections to the data. the first and second correction for the data was calculated. While this was done the interval on the oscilloscope was changed in order to collect data on the background in order to increase the accuracy of our initial data. During this time a histogram of the initial data collected was created using a python script. An exponential fit of the data was also created. The following week the background data was collected. Then the data collected for the background count was analysed. The background events per bin in the muon decay data was determined and this was subtracted from the muon decay data. Then the muon life time was determined.The data was collected by an oscilloscope and uploaded into phython all of the processing and visuals were done in phython. First I began by importing the neccessary libraries. Following this I imported and opened the data obtained from the oscillscope. The following lines of code are solving for various of the variables needed to calculate the value of the Muon life time. These include tau(time index), peaks of the data, uncertainty. Following the calculations an exponential fit of the data was created and the background data was also uploaded. A visual was created demonstrating the background counts were uniform. The background counts were then subtracted from the origial data and a fit of the data was created.

